Watchlog

Problem the app must solve: I watch things across Plex, Apple TV, and Netflix and
there's no single record of it. I want a page at adamwitwer.com/watchlog that keeps
a running list automatically, newest on top, with no confirmation step and nothing
for me to maintain by hand. If I have to think about it, it has failed.

Users: 1 (me). Readers: anyone who visits the page.

App features:
* Automatically detects what I've watched. No confirmation, no manual entry.
* Publishes to a simple list at adamwitwer.com/watchlog, newest first.
* Large type, modern, text-only. No posters. Should look like an editorial list,
  not a streaming grid.
* Each entry: title + year, date watched, IMDb link, small service badge.
* I can delete an entry. That's the only interaction I want to have with it.
* Emphasis on simplicity and speed. The page should be a flat file that loads instantly.
* Later, maybe: ratings, notes. Probably not. Don't build for them now.

Platforms available (verified 2026-09-01):
* Raspberry Pi 5 -- Debian bookworm, Python 3.11.2, always on, on the LAN and the
  Tailnet. Already runs hydrawise-watcher. This is where Watchlog lives.
* Plex server -- a Mac mini (Mac14,3) on the same flat subnet as the Pi, so the webhook
  is a plain LAN call; Tailscale isn't even needed for it.
* Apple TV -- Apple TV 4K gen 3 (AppleTV14,1), tvOS 26.6, on that same subnet.
  Discovered by pyatv 0.18.0 from the Pi. AirPlay and Companion both present, both
  Pairing: Mandatory.
* adamwitwer.com -- NearlyFreeSpeech.NET. Real SSH, so rsync over SSH into
  /home/public/watchlog/. Billed by storage and bandwidth; a single small HTML file is
  a rounding error on an account that already serves the site.
* Also on the LAN: a Roku 4K. Out of scope, noted in case it matters later.
* Render account exists (crits-fumbles, notes-app). Usual GitHub for version control.


DECISIONS (locked in planning)

Devices I actually watch on: Apple TV 4K box most of the time, browser on a Mac second,
iPhone/iPad occasionally.

Plex: self-hosted, with Plex Pass. -> Native webhooks. Instant, device-independent,
and Plex hands us IMDb IDs directly.

Binge grouping: group by show + night. Movies get their own entry; episodes collapse
into one line per show per night ("Severance, S2 E3-E6").

Publishing: the Pi renders a static watchlog.html and rsyncs it to NearlyFreeSpeech
over SSH. No new hosting, no public API, no database on the server. Everything with
moving parts -- collectors, SQLite, the admin UI -- runs on the Pi for free and is
never exposed to the internet. The only public surface is one flat HTML file.

Watched threshold: 90% complete. Chosen deliberately; it matches Plex's own scrobble
point, so both sensors agree on what "watched" means.

Netflix: OUT of v1 entirely, decided after Phase 0 measured what the Apple TV actually
reports (nothing -- see findings). Not a browser-only gap as originally assumed. The
only remaining route is scraping netflix.com/viewingactivity, which is deferred to its
own later phase rather than allowed to gate the parts that work. v1 is Plex and
Apple TV+. The README says so plainly, so the gap reads as a decision and not a bug.

Safety valve: none. Fully instant publish, delete after the fact. I said no
confirmation and I meant it.


HOW IT WORKS

Two sensors, one store, one renderer. All of it on the Pi.

1. Plex webhook listener. Plex Pass fires a webhook on every media.scrobble (~90%
   watched). The Pi runs a small Flask endpoint on the LAN; the Plex server posts to it
   directly, so nothing is exposed to the internet. Payload includes show/season/episode,
   year, and a Guid array with imdb:// and tmdb:// IDs, so Plex entries need no lookup
   at all. Filter to my account. Covers Plex on every device -- box, browser, phone.

2. Apple TV listener (pyatv). A persistent push-update connection to the Apple TV 4K.
   pyatv reports the playing title, artwork, position/duration, and critically WHICH APP
   is playing -- so we get service attribution for free. Covers Apple TV+ and Netflix
   on the box. A local state machine watches for a title to reach ~85% complete (or
   accumulate 20+ minutes) and then stop or change, and logs it at that point.

3. Dedup. Plex played on the Apple TV box would otherwise be seen twice. Cheap exact
   fix: ignore any pyatv event where the reported app is Plex. Beyond that, a
   normalized key of (title, season, episode, type) within a 4-hour window collapses
   duplicates, preferring whichever source has richer metadata.

4. Enrichment. Plex entries already carry IMDb IDs. Apple TV entries carry only strings,
   so those get a TMDb search (free API) to resolve title -> tmdb_id, imdb_id, year.
   Results cached in a titles table so we look up each show once. A manual override
   column for when the match is wrong.

5. Store. SQLite on the Pi. One entries table (raw watch events), one titles table
   (resolved metadata), a hidden flag for deletes.

6. Render + push. Jinja2 template -> a single self-contained watchlog.html with inline
   CSS, no JavaScript. Debounced ~60s after any new entry, then rsync over SSH to the
   web host. Delete triggers the same re-render and push.

7. Delete. A small Flask admin page on the Pi, reachable only over the LAN or the
   Tailnet. Recent entries with a hide button each. Sets hidden=1, re-renders, re-pushes.
   Deleting a grouped entry removes the whole group.

Page design: max-width around 40rem, large title type, muted metadata line beneath,
generous line height, light/dark via prefers-color-scheme. Title links to IMDb. Service
badge in small caps. Nothing else.


PHASE 0 FINDINGS (measured, not assumed)

Netflix reports NOTHING. While actively playing, the Apple TV exposes only the bundle
identifier com.netflix.Netflix. title, series_name, season_number, episode_number,
position, total_time, content_identifier: all None. media_type Unknown. We can tell
that Netflix is open. We cannot tell what is playing, or how far in. There is no
threshold to compute and no title to log. Netflix cannot be captured from the box.

The Apple TV app works, at series level. Observed:
    app          TV [com.apple.TVWatchList]
    media_type   Video
    title        'Dark Matter'          <- the SERIES name, not the episode title
    total_time   2917                   <- 48.6 min, so this is an episode
    content_id   'A0052201001'
    itunes_id    '1727880953'
    series_name / season_number / episode_number: all None
So we learn the show and the progress, but not which episode. That lands very close to
the display we already chose -- grouping by show and night -- and costs us only the
"S2 E3-E6" range, which Plex still provides for its own entries.

The iTunes identifier is a dead end. https://itunes.apple.com/lookup?id=1727880953
returns resultCount 0, with or without country/entity, and a title search for the show
returns nothing either. Apple TV+ originals aren't in the legacy iTunes catalog.
Enrichment for Apple TV entries falls back to TMDb search by title, which carries a
real ambiguity risk: "Dark Matter" is both the 2024 Apple TV+ series and a 2015 Syfy
one. Mitigated by the manual override column, the known duration, and the watch date.

Push updates fire on STATE CHANGE only, not continuously. 55 seconds of steady playback
produced exactly one update. The listener alone will therefore never observe the moment
something crosses 90%. Phase 2 must poll metadata.playing() on an interval (30-60s)
while a title is playing, and treat push updates as the signal for start/stop/switch.
This is a correction to the original design.

Incidentally, YouTube TV reports more than Netflix does: title plus channel as artist
("Men's & Women's First Round" / "ESPN"). Out of scope, but it means a future source
is cheap if ever wanted.


PHASES

Phase 0 -- Spike. COMPLETE, 2026-09-01.
  pyatv 0.18.0 on the Pi, Companion and AirPlay both paired (275-char credentials each,
  in .env). A push listener captured 20 updates across three apps. Findings below.

Phase 1 -- Plex end to end.
  Webhook listener, SQLite, grouping, Jinja2 render, rsync to the host. IMDb links come
  free from Plex GUIDs. At the end of this phase the page is live and real, with one
  source. Everything after is additive.

Phase 2 -- Apple TV. COMPLETE, running as watchlog-appletv.service.
  pyatv push listener for start/stop/switch, PLUS interval polling of metadata.playing()
  for position (push alone never sees the 90% crossing). The watched-threshold state
  machine, reconnect-with-backoff, and the dedup rules. Adds Apple TV+ at series level.

Phase 3 -- TMDb enrichment. COMPLETE.
  Resolve Apple TV titles to IMDb IDs and years. Cache and manual-override.

Phase 4 -- Admin delete UI. COMPLETE. v1 done.
  Until this ships, deleting means one SQL statement over SSH, which is survivable.

Phase 5 -- Netflix, only if the gap proves annoying.
  Playwright with a saved session against netflix.com/viewingactivity, run nightly and
  deduped against everything already logged. Covers Netflix everywhere, at the cost of
  the most fragile component in the system. Deliberately last.

Later, if ever: ratings, notes, an RSS feed of the log, year-end stats.


RISKS AND OPEN QUESTIONS

1. RESOLVED. The host is NearlyFreeSpeech.NET with real SSH, so rsync over SSH into
   /home/public/watchlog/ works and the /watchlog path is safe. Needs an SSH key from
   the Pi added to the NFSN account so the push can run unattended.

2. RESOLVED, badly. Netflix reports no metadata at all from the Apple TV (see Phase 0
   findings). The only remaining route to Netflix is scraping netflix.com/viewingactivity
   with a saved session -- which would cover all Netflix everywhere, but is the single
   most fragile component anyone could add to this design, and lags up to 24h.

3. pyatv fragility. Connections drop when the Apple TV sleeps, so the listener needs
   reconnect-with-backoff. tvOS updates occasionally break pairing and require re-pairing
   by hand, which means physical access to the TV again. The mDNS/VLAN concern is
   resolved -- the Pi and the Apple TV are on one flat subnet and discovery works.

4. TMDb mismatches on ambiguous or generic titles. Mitigated by the override column,
   but some entries will need a manual touch.

5. Deletes are not retroactive. Removing an entry takes it off the page but not out of
   anyone's cache, or out of an RSS reader if we ever add one. Accepted.

6. Watched threshold set at 90%, matching Plex. Still worth watching for false
   positives from trailers and abandoned starts once real data accumulates.

7. Deliberately not building: a blocklist. I chose instant publish. Worth revisiting
   only if something embarrassing ends up on the page and delete feels too slow.

8. RESOLVED. Plex webhooks fail silently and permanently. PMS fetches its webhook list
   from servers.plex.tv once at startup; on 2026-09-02 it crashed, restarted at 14:30:43,
   and three seconds later the fetch lost a race with DNS ("Could not resolve host:
   servers.plex.tv"). It never retried. Every delivery before that logged "to 1 hooks";
   after it, no delivery lines at all, and a full evening of viewing went unrecorded with
   no error anywhere on our side. Fixed by not depending on the webhook for correctness:
   watchlog-reconcile.timer re-reads the last RECONCILE_DAYS of Plex's own history hourly
   and imports whatever is missing. The webhook is now just the fast path.

9. Episode titles added to the page 2026-09-04, and manual entry of season, episode
   and episode title added to the admin page. The second is a deliberate departure
   from "fully automated": the Apple TV reports a series name and nothing else, so
   typing is the only route to parity with the Plex entries. The original constraint
   was that nothing should stand between watching and publishing -- no confirmation
   step -- and an optional after-the-fact edit does not reintroduce one. The page's
   "Nothing here was typed by hand" line was removed at the same time, because it
   stops being true the moment the feature is used.

10. Manual entry of whole entries added 2026-09-04, closing the Netflix gap by hand
    rather than by scraping. Phase 5 (scraping netflix.com/viewingactivity with a
    saved session) stays unbuilt and is now much less likely to be worth it: the
    scraper was always the single most fragile thing in the design, and a typed
    entry costs about fifteen seconds.

11. OPEN. The 4am night rollover doesn't actually roll over at 4am local. night_of()
    subtracts NIGHT_ROLLOVER_HOUR from the UTC clock, so in EDT (UTC-4) the boundary
    lands at local midnight -- anything watched between midnight and 4am files under
    the following day, which is exactly the case the rollover was meant to catch.
    Real example: "Batman: Knightfall" watched 00:13 on Aug 29 belongs to the night
    of Aug 28 and is filed under Aug 29. Fixing it means converting to local time
    before subtracting, and it would re-date some existing entries on the page, so
    it is Adam's call. Manual entries are unaffected: they are anchored at 9pm local.

12. PAGE_LIMIT removed 2026-09-04 -- the page now shows everything. The worry was file
    size; the measurement said otherwise. 150 entries were 89KB raw and 9.3KB gzipped,
    and the full 232 are 135KB raw and 13KB gzipped, because a page of near-identical
    markup compresses about 10:1. Even a decade of viewing stays trivial to serve.
    The real limit turned out to be the rail, not the file: one hairline per entry into
    a fixed ~520px column stops being legible somewhere past 300 ticks, so beyond
    RAIL_MAX_TICKS the fine ticks thin out and only month markers are guaranteed.
    If thumbnails are ever added this calculus changes completely -- images don't
    compress the way this markup does, and that would be the thing to measure first.
